In the current lesson, we will inflict damage to the character depending on which part of the body we hit,
and in particular, we will make a headshot. Let's remember what happens in the TakeDamage function. Press f12.
Inside the function, it is checked whether the parameter of the object of type DamageEvent is of type FPointDamageEvent and if it is,
then the OnTakePointDamage delegate is called with various parameters. Next comes the second check: whether it belongs
to the FRadialDamageEvent type and if it does, then the OnTakeRadialDamage function is called.
In the health component, we subscribe to the OnTakeAnyDamage delegate, which is called
in any case regardless of the type. FPointDamageEvent is a structure
that inherits from the base FDamageEvent. It has additional parameters, the main one
that interests us, called HitInfo. We can pass an object of type FPointDamageEvent to the TakeDamage function
and specify the FHitResult structure. Let's create a local variable. Let's call it PointDamageEvent.
Also in this structure there are two constructors: one is the default, and in the other we can pass
damage, hit result, shot direction, damage type, and so on. We create an object using the default constructor.
And we will explicitly indicate the only parameter of interest to us, HitInfo. We assign it a value,
which we pass as a parameter to the MakeDamage function. And we pass this object to the TakeDamage function.
After this transformation, the OnTakePointDamage delegate will be called
and we can subscribe to it in the health component. Let's copy the signature. It is quite long for this delegate.
And we create a callback function in the health component.
We call it OnTakePointDamage.
And when the projectile explodes, the ApplyRadialDamage function is called,
which in the end calls the TakeDamage function
with an event of the FRadialDamageEvent type.
That is, in the case of projectile, two delegates are currently being called:
one is OnTakeAnyDamage, and the second is OnTakeRadialDamage.
Let's copy the signature OnTakeRadialDamage.
We create an additional function in the health component, call it OnTakeRadialDamage.
A little refactoring will need to be done.
Let's add an additional function called ApplyDamage.
We will move the code into it, which is now in the OnTakeAnyDamage function.
We create a body for each function.
And we transfer the code that is in the OnTakeAnyDamage function to the ApplyDamage function.
We have 3 callback functions to handle damage events. Let's subscribe
to the appropriate delegates. Let's bind our functions.
We will handle damage in only two functions: OnTakePointDamage and OnTakeRadialDamage.
Our old OnTakeAnyDamage function is no longer needed. Let's call the ApplyDamage function in these callbacks.
At the moment, the logic of the health component has not changed, that is, bullets will be processed
in OnTakePointDamage, and projectile explosions in the OnTakeRadialDamage function. Let's add logs to this function.
In the OnTakePointDamage function, we will display the amount of damage that needs to be applied to the character's health
and also one of the parameters called boneName. This is the name of the skeleton bone of our character
that we got into. Information about the bone is in the FHitResult structure, but as we can see, the
FHitResult structure is not completely in the parameters of this delegate. It is called with only some of the parameters
from this structure. Knowing the name of the bone, we can already cause damage depending on the given name.
We will do this with you using physical materials. If the FHitResult structure were
completely passed in the delegate, then getting the physical material would not be a problem.
We already know how to do it. Physical material is the field of a given structure. We will now
learn how to obtain physical material, knowing only the name of the bone. In the OnTakeRadialDamage and OnTakeAnyDamage functions,
we will only log the quantitative characteristics of the damage - the damage parameter.
We will need an additional property, which will contain modifiers for damage
, depending on the physical material. For this purpose, a data structure is suitable for us - an associative array,
in which the key will be the physical material, and the value of the damage modifier is a
certain number by which we will multiply the damage that we received in the callback function.
We call property DamageModifiers.
For convenience, we will create a function in which we will receive a pointer to a physical
material depending on the name of the bone and return the value of the damage modifier.
The function will have two parameters - this will point to the actor that received the damage and also the name of the bone.
Let's add a forward declaration for the physical material class.
And we create the body of the function in a .cpp file.
We need the character header file. We already have an actor and a pawn. Delete the actor's header file.
It is redundant, and we replace pawn with character. include the header file of the physical material.
The first thing we will do in our function is cast the DamageActor to type Character.
We will get the physical material using the mesh component, the pointer to which is in the charter class.
If the pointer is null, then we will return the value 1. We will use the value that
this function returns as a multiplier to our original damage. So when we return 1,
the damage value simply won't change. We can immediately add a call to this
function to OnTakePointDamage. We create a local constant. We call it FinalDamage.
And assign it the value of the Damage product by the value returned by the GetPointDamageModifier function.
We pass DamageActor and BoneName into it. We also change the parameter for the ApplyDamage function.
Plus, we will output the FinalDamage value to the log.
We return to the body of our function. Let's create a local variable for the physical material pointer.
Let's get the given value. We call the GetMesh function. It returns a pointer to the mesh component.
Next, we call the mesh component function called GetBodyInstance.
It returns a pointer to a special type called FBodyInstance.
We also pass the BoneName parameter to this function. And the final function of the FBodyInstance structure
is called GetSimplePhysicalMaterial. This function directly returns a
pointer to the physical material. We are not interested in the FBodyInstance structure. These are the implementation details.
Next, we check if the given key exists in our associative array.
If it does not exist, then we return 1.
And if it does exist, then we return the value of the modifier.
And also check that all pointers are nonzero.
We compile the project. We can add two additional physical materials.
We assign one to the collisions that are on the character's hands, call it hand, and assign the
second one to the character's legs, call it leg. We go to the character editor, to the physics tab
and replace the physical materials on the character's hands, we had a body. We change to hand.
We do the same with the legs - change to leg. And we also check that we have head on our head.
In the AICharacter blueprint, add data to our associative array. If we hit the body,
let the modifier be 1, that is, the damage will not change. If we get into the hand,
let's make the value less than one, that is, the final damage will be less. When hitting the leg,
let the value be slightly more than 1. When hitting the head, we will multiply the damage by a large value.
In our case, this will definitely kill the character, but with certain
damage and health settings of the character, this scheme may not work, so if we want the character
to die unambiguously when dealing damage to the head, in the code it is clearly possible to set the amount of health to 0
on hit into the physical material head. For testing, disable the behavior tree logic.
We will also set the round time a little more.
We open the log. I also turned off the sound beforehand in the game. We run up to any character,
shoot in the leg. All information was displayed in the log. For the leg, the modifier 1.1 worked for us and the final damage = 11.
When it hit the hand, the modifier 0.8 worked. Next, we check for hitting the character's body.
We shoot. Modifier = 1. Everything is correct.
And at the end we kill the enemy with a shot in the head.
We will also add modifiers to the PlayerCharacter blueprint.
This concludes the current lesson.